Exploiting Admin Consoles
Let’s begin with admin console
enumeration and exploitation.
Once we’ve located an admin console,
the simplest “exploit”
is to just log into it.
We may attempt default
username/password pairs,
use enumerated information
to guess working credentials,
or attempt brute force.
However, a light touch is
usually best with brute force.
Account lockouts will negatively
affect our penetration test,
will block legitimate administrators,
and may alert blue teams to our presence.
As always, we must carefully weigh
the risks of every attack vector
and act carefully and in the
best interest of our client.
Despite these risks, a compromised
administration console is a prime target
and may allow us to deploy
and run code on the server,
which can provide a quick path to a shell.
To demonstrate this, we will work though
an example of an attack against a
poorly-configured admin console installed
on our Windows 10 target.
Note that the IP addresses
used in the rest of this module
may not match your lab.
Refer to the control panel
for your assigned IP addresses.
To begin, we will set up
the Windows 10 target
by opening the XAMPP Control panel,
and clicking Start for both
Apache and MySQL.
Next, we’ll run DIRB from Kali,
targeting our Windows 10 machine.
Once again, we’ll run our dirb scan
non-recursively with -r.
The output lists several interesting URLs
including one for phpmyadmin,
an administration tool for MySQL databases,
which is particularly interesting.
Entering the corresponding URL into our
browser produces a phpMyAdmin login page.
An quick Internet search suggests that the
default login credentials for phpMYAdmin
include “root” with a blank password.
Let’s try that against our
Windows 10 target.
After submitting the credentials,
we receive an error message
that “Login without a password
is forbidden by configuration”.
This is because “AllowNoPassword”
is set to False
within the phpMyAdmin
configuration file ().
Under this configuration,
we need to include a password to log in
so we can reasonably assume
the password is not blank.
We will have to Try Harder
if we want to gain access.